# final_project

The project is inspired by game "Mastermind", in which the player has to guess the code in a limited number of tries. In order to play the game, the player needs to run the "Play" class. Up from this point, the program interacts with the player via text console. It is important to remember to always press "enter" button after typing any information in the text console - otherwise the program will not obtain it.

After runnig the "Play" class, the player sees "main menu" - and can either adjust the difficulty by typing "d" (+enter), exit the program by typing "e" (+enter) or play the game by typing anything else. (the program communicates these options via text console)

There are 3 levels of difficulty, each gives the player a different number of tries to guess the generated code. By default, the player plays on "normal" difficulty and has 15 tries to win the game. Difficulty can be changed to "low" by typing "l" or "high" by typing "h" (these options are communicated by the program), but only after the player selected to adjust the difficulty from the "main menu", it cannot be changed while playing the game. On "low" difficulty, the player has 20 tries, on "hard" 10 tries to guess the correct code. After selecting the difficulty, the program automatically goes back to the "main menu".

If the player decided to play the game, the program generates a new code, which contains 4 digits (integers from range <0,9>), which are randomly selected. A digit may occur multiple times in one code. The player has to guess the code within a limited number of tries (depending on difficulty level), by typing a sequence of four digits seperated by spaces (e.g. "1 2 3 4" or "0 0 0 0" (+enter)) using the text console. The program checks how many of the numbers given by the player exist in code and how many of them are placed correctly and informs the player about the outcome. 

For example: let's assume that the program generated a following code: "5 5 6 7". If a player types: "7 6 5 5", the program would inform the player, that there are 4 correct numbers but none in their correct place. The program is designed to count each digit precisely once - if, in the above example, player's input would equal: "5 1 2 3", the program would inform that there is only one correct number (despite there are two "fives" in generated code), because the player typed only one "5". Accordingly, if the player would type "5 5 5 5", the program would inform that there are two correct numbers, because there are two "fives" in the generated code.

After receiving information about the amount of correct numbers and the amount of correct numbers in their correct places, the player is able to type his/her new guess. The process repeats until the player wins the game by typing the correct code, loses the game by running out of tries or exits the game by typing "e". When any of the above happens, the player is directed back to the "main menu" and can play the game once again, adjust the difficulty or exit the program. 

One potentially problematic issue is the requirement that the player types his/her guesses in a particular format i.e. precisely four digits from range <0,9> seperated by spaces - only this format allows the program to compare the player's guess with the previously generated code. Given the number of tries that players have to complete the game, it is not uncommon that they make a typing mistake and write a code that differs from required format. To deal with this problem, the program has been designed and tested to catch any deviances from correct format, especially symbols other than integer numbers, incorrect code length or integers outside of range <0,9>. Thanks to these inclusions, whenever a player types his/her guess incorrectly, the program does not stop working, but informs the player about the mistake and asks them to type again, without decreasing the number of tries that the player has left to win the game.
